so um I'm going to try to ignore this I
might actually do camera
off
um but I want this to be basically low
key e
does he have a playlist on math
hey V Michael here let's take a moment
to recognize the heroes the count Cadian
Mike Smith holds the world record for
the largest number counted to in one
breath
125 but the world record for the largest
number ever counted to belongs to Jeremy
Harper from Birmingham Alabama in order
to set the record Harper never left his
apartment he got regular sleep but from
the moment he woke up in the morning
until the moment he went to bed at night
Harper did nothing but count he streamed
the entire process over the internet and
raised money for charity while doing it
but after 3 months of counting all day
every day he finally reached the world
record 1 million now a million might not
sound like a lot but think of it this
way 1,000 seconds is about 17 minutes
but a million seconds is more than 11
days and a billion seconds well that's
more than 31 years there's no full video
online hard time all the way to a
million but you can watch John count all
the way to 100,000 if you have 74
hours inves ofs more than of
drinking have views they are as as video
on YouTube can get a way to find videos
is made by Vander this aut videos on
YouTube that no one has
watched whoa is that still exist
dude that is so freaking interesting
man all right let's see his most popular
wait where's the number
one on YouTube that no one has yet
watched John and Jeremy as well as the
one breath counter counted like this 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 and so on but that's not the
only way to count and it doesn't seem to
be the one we're born additive counting
is the one we're all familiar with where
each next step is just one added to the
last but what if we multip by a number
inste well that kind of counting is
logiic from number and logoing ratio
proportion on this scale similar
distances are simar proportions one is a
third of three and three is a third of n
four is a third of 12 and so on our
brains perceive the world around us on a
logarithmic scale it's beli that almost
all of our senses are multiplicative not
additive for example how loud we
perceive a sound to be two boom boxes
playing at the same volume don't sound
twice as loud as one in order to make a
sound that is perceived as being about
twice as loud as one boom box you
actually need 10 times as many so 10 and
to double that loudness you would need
100 and to double that loudness you
would need having in sense of
logarithmic scales built into your brain
is probably Advantage when it comes to
Natural
Shadow dude that's the amazing thing is
it it's the transition to something
totally
unexpected that is what's so
interesting okay so I guess for
context what I am do doing right now you
know what I should be on video I mean
why why am I afraid I don't want to be
like one of those masked
fools here I am so let's just look at
the script
so all right let me just do a read
through but I want to think of a lot
different ways to do this because the
hook I mean I don't want it to just be a
boring programming video like really
think about the
audience because we want the audience to
be big and initially when I was writing
this I wrote this for a
programming
audience
but this video would be so much more
Timeless if it was just about symbolics
I mean it's really
flipping flipping what this video is
about but so okay let me read through it
and then we'll we'll think about it
because it's right now it's right now
it's like pretty freaking lame like it's
like oh I did this like that's
not that's not a Vsauce video man that's
not captivating that's just like me like
no one cares what I did
but if you have that
hook you just start about you start off
not talking about programming langages
at
all but you talk about
symbols and you need something that is
just so like the first 10 seconds you be
so
widely uh engage like basically
everybody could engage with the first 10
seconds you just need to make something
that anyone can engage
with really hard actually and I this is
the first time I'm doing
this hey vau Michael here what is the
biggest number you can think of a Google
a Google Plex
a blog post I don't think that's a good
idea look at the
other weird programming language videos
I have that
but and and all of the
actual visuals so okay wait let me show
let me just play what I have right now
how about that
this thing sucks to be honest it's
really
bad let's see do I have desktop audio on
oh
wait hello okay let's make this like
that almost every programming language
airs if you try to use a variable before
defining it I subconsciously thought
this was the only way until I stumbled
onto Mathematica a few years ago this
experience planted a seed in my mind
that laid dormant for years but
eventually grew to an obsession and led
me to building my own Mathematica
cap dude if I was a big baller with big
balls I would totally name it just the
letter
X that gets me so amped
okay so what if what if it was just what
if I just started out
with it's
um me outside and I I'm and it fades in
and I say what does this mean to you and
it's just a it's just a piece of paper
with the letter x on
it I'm G to ask Chad gbt but I don't
think
that I'm writing a video about a
programming language that I wrote that's
very similar to Wolf from
Mathematica and it's a symbolic language
but I don't want it to be um a video
that only people who are programmers can
engage with I want the broader
discussion to be
about uh the use of symbolism in human
history the history of algebra and then
maybe transition into how a symbolic
programming language is actually a very
beautiful idea but I I want to
brainstorm basically a bunch of
different ways that I could hook an a
viewer in the first 10 seconds of the
video and I want you to to propose some
ideas
o an emoji is
actually Emoji
bro what happens if you just search an
emoji wait wait wait wait wait I was
going to the poop emoji cuz that's the
funniest thing but
uh most common wait most
common most common
emojis okay let's just look up the heart
emoji on YouTube
very interesting I guess let's see what
are the other
ones
uh does this just copy it nice that's
great
that's pretty funny actually
bro what is going
on yeah okay so what if it cuz
just the visual of a a picture of me
holding up the poop emoji printed out in
color that's pretty good
wait why am I typing write a history
of the use of symbols in human history
e for
okay so 40,000 years
ago uh we had
like
symbolic
depictions of
hands
animals
um abstract patterns okay so wait
um where can I see a review of the
oldest human
symbols want to just um I want a
timeline basically of all of the oldest
symbols to explore the oldest human
symbols the mind in the cave y
what is this called it's useful to know
prehistoric
symbols okay so wait so uh halol lithic
drawings I mean yeah we could say art
but really yeah it's
symbolism in France and it was dated to
oh wow humans make art we do this for
many
reasons nonrepresentational
the oldest
representational Stone Age
I don't know enough about
history archaeological discoveries
across
Europe 200 caves we really were cave
people it's kind of crazy to think about
I wonder why
we do
this
for
e e
it's a lot of animals
that's really
interesting
for
for e
is this a different
thing okay whatever I don't really give
a [__]
oh wow okay so
only 5,000 years
ago did we actually develop writing
systems but that means that okay we have
no way to
know what the spoken language was like
because presumably spoken language is
probably
body language and spoken language
yeah gestures and sounds that's the way
that we communicated
e
the hell is an oracle
bone
oh an ox wa let's close all this crap
figuring out what image to use is tough
man e
dude I don't even know anything about St
Augustine the
wait okay let me try to read this would
not be until St Augustine that the
nature of the sign would be considered
within a conventional system that really
doesn't mean anything to me Augustine
introduced a thematic proposal for
uniting the two under the notion of sign
as transcending the nature culture
divide and identifying symbols as no
more than a species of
sinum I don't
know a monograph study this question
would be done okay these the let
yeah wait is this John Lock as
in yeah yeah that okay that John
Lock bro where is that what's that quote
actually at the beginning of I think
it's at the beginning of this where he
just talks
about it's also in the lisp book too
why am I typing bro was it John lock
that has uh that essay where at the
beginning he talks about like the atoms
of ideas and then the ability to make
compound ideas from the atoms
let's find that because it's also in the
list
book let me just read this
simple
I should I just read this
the understanding like the eye while it
makes us see and perceive all other
things takes no notice of itself
and it requires art and pains to set it
at a distance and make it its own object
dude that's so [__] rad man but
whatever be the difficulties that lie in
the way of this inquiry whatever it be
that keeps us so much in the dark to
ourselves sure I am that all the light
we can let in Upon Our Minds all the
acquaintance we can make with our own
understandings will not only be very
pleasant but bring us great advantage in
directing our thoughts in the search of
other things bro John L was a freaking
Beast I did dude I had to read this [__]
in college but like I did not read it I
just like coasted but now that I'm like
into it I'm like this is
exciting so this therefore being my
purpose to inquire into the original
certainty and extent of human knowledge
together with the grounds and degrees of
belief opinion and
Ascent I shall not at present meddle
with the physical considerations of the
Mind physical consideration of the mind
or trouble myself to examine wherein its
Essence consists or by what motions of
our spirits and alterations of our
bodies we come to have any sensation by
organs or any ideas in our wait hold
on or by what motions of our Spirits or
alterations of our body we come to have
any sensation by our organs or any ideas
in our understandings and whether those
ideas do in their formation any or all
of them depend on matter or not now
that's the key
part these are speculations
which however curious and entertaining I
shall decline as lying out of my way in
the design I am now
upon it shall suffice to my present
purpose to cons uh to consider the
Discerning faculties of a man as they
are employed about the objects which
they have have to do
with and I and I shall imagine I have
not wholly misemployment
wait did it just zoom me down
I sh and I shall imagine I have not
wholly misemployment
fully
contradictory and yet asserted somewhere
or
other with such assurance
and wait what does he mean the s's
important
that's the problem is actually like in
college I didn't read any of this cuz
actually takes a lot of time to
read and just reason
about like where where does this
sentence even
start bro it like they just write and
write and write bro
I think it's up
here for
okay that's very interesting
to propose that in like the beginning is
like pretty
cool okay so we
have wow dude he is really good okay
three method it is therefore worthwhile
to search out the bounds between opinion
and knowledge and examine what by what
measures in things whereof we have no
certain knowledge we ought to regulate
what is the definition of
ascent the expression of
approval in order wherein I shall pursue
this following method first I shall
inquire into the original of those ideas
Notions or whatever else you please to
call them which a man observes and is
conscious to himself he has in his mind
and the ways whereby the understanding
comes to be furnished with
them and the ways whereby the
understanding comes to be furnished with
them secondly I shall Endeavor to show
what knowledge the
understanding
has by those
ideas I shall
in second I'm going to try to show what
knowledge the I don't really get why how
he when he uses the understanding as a
noun wait why am I typing I'm having
trouble understanding what he means by
the knowledge or sorry the [__]
understanding using it as a
noun yeah that's what I thought he's he
says the understanding as a as a as
human uh mental
faculty so I'm going to try to show what
knowledge human understanding
has by those ideas
okay wait so what does he
mean right the faculty of the power of
the Mind here's a breakdown of what lock
is saying I shall show what knowledge
the understanding has by those ideas
lock is saying that he will try to
explain how the mind gains
knowledge is that really what he's
saying
how the mind uses ideas to form
knowledge and the certainty evidence and
extent of it he'll also examine how
certain this knowledge is how evident or
clear it is okay how far reaching it can
be
okay thirdly I shall make some inquiry
into the nature and grounds of Faith or
opinion whereby I mean that
a that a scent which we give to any
proposition is true of whose truth yet
we are have no certain knowledge and
here we shall have occasion to examine
the reasons and degrees of
ascent
for yeah useful to know the extent of
our comprehension if by this inquiry
into the nature of the understanding I
can discover the powers thereof
how far they
reach to what things they are in any
degree
proportionate and where they fail us I
suppose it may be of use to Prevail with
the busy mind of man to be more cautious
in meddling with things exceeding its
comprehension to stop when it is at the
utmost extent of its tether and to sit
down in a quiet ignorance of those
things which upon examination
are found to be beyond the reach of our
capacities we should not then perhaps be
so
forward out of an affectation of and and
a universal knowledge to raise questions
and perplex ourselves and others with
disputes about things to which our
understanding are not
suited we we should not perhaps be so
forward to raise questions and perplex
ourselves and others with disputes about
things which our understandings are not
suited so he's saying like like are we
in a simulation who gives a [__] that's
what he's saying you we our
comprehension is not suited to
actually answer that
question and of which we cannot frame in
our minds any clear or distinct
perceptions
or or where as it perhaps too often have
we have not any Notions at all basically
he's talking about the God
question the nature the true nature of
the universe or something like
that yo what's up Jordy
wow you have 100 followers do you stream
I don't know
anyways
um we are reading John Lock and we are
reading John lock for a reason it's not
just cuz I'm like doing weird
[__] I am in the process of writing a
the script of a video which I want to be
kind of like a Vsauce video in that it
is about this programming language I
wrote but it's actually about
the just the nature of symbolism in h in
human culture but the thing is I just
don't have enough historical
context
to uh to actually write that so we have
to do a lot of Preparatory work and this
is sort of the first in a stream where
I'm not just doing technical stuff but
I'm actually sort of exploring
and writing which is like very new to me
so and and making something captivating
too
e
e e
okay so
um so I do want to let's see how long is
this intro oh great
they who is they in that
situation yeah
uh what is a good list from oldest to
new that traces the idea of
symbols
that in human history
no no no no no of text
books but do they do they have the meta
reflection of understanding that what
they are doing is writing symbols and
that you can write
about dude actually the E Ching is a
great example bro
because because the the way that what is
it the way that is stated is not the
true
way the way that can be stated is not
the true way bro I love that phrase man
the to that can be told is not the true
to but that's why it's a symbol bro
because it it you just say the tow is a
symbol and it's just oh my
gosh bro so sick that's actually a good
one I didn't even think about that one I
probably
won't put that in the video but that is
a very good one and I don't know
anything about this but yeah
the symbolic meetings of Duty action in
the
self yeah I'm going to be biased towards
Western philosophy because I I only read
in English and I think the bva probably
has
been how was like Warcraft race what I I
don't know
man okay wait I guess my title is wrong
for today but this is what I'm doing
uh bro some of these people are
like dude some of these people are like
so ridiculous but whatever
um yeah just just use chat GPT you don't
need to actually read the original texts
bro the person that was there before
you in my chat this
person you waste a lot of time on this
why don't you take help of chat gbt what
whatever I'm not going to get freaking
flustered by some
clown but
um let's see is this on Gutenberg in
English
oh it's a dialogue
oh wow this is a good start
okay has been arguing about names he
says that they are natural and not
conventional e
names are actually a
good names are actually a good one
because names
are symbolic let's see where he goes not
the person people think of when they
hear your name and for that matter when
will Every reasonably memorable
pronounceable band name or brand name be
taken when will authors have no choice
but to just start reusing book titles
according to roie Corp owner of
allmusic.com the most used band name is
bliss followed in order by Mirage one
Gemini Legacy Paradox and rain in the
past when fewer bands had already been
created and you couldn't just Google up
every single band overlap was easier to
get away with and one-word band names
were plentiful but now after years and
years and years of band formation well
we have the who but we also have the
what the where the when the why the how
and even the the in order to stand out
bro he's so good at writing now and have
your own unique name you have to be a
bit more creative oh diarrhea planet or
Betty's not a vitamin which by the way
is no longer true Betty became a vitamin
in 1994 what about Twitter handles or
email addresses have we already reached
Peak username we already find ourselves
often having to use abbreviations
initials numbers or just choosing
something completely different will our
children or our children's children live
in a world where the only remaining
Gmail addresses are just random strings
of alpha numeric characters are we
approaching a name crisis and if so
should we even call it a name crisis
lest we use up get another precious name
maybe you already share your name with
someone famous but if you don't how long
will it be until you probably will I
mean new famous people are popping up
all the time faster now than ever before
because of the internet and they are
doubling up top Google search bilon
maybe it won't happen until long after
you've been dead but should the
reservoir of names not taken by notable
people eventually run out computer
scientist Samuel arisman approximated
how many famous people there are alive
today and I think his calculation will
be helpful you see he points out that if
we allow famous to Simply mean being
notable enough to have your own
Wikipedia page well because there are
700,000 living people with Wikipedia
pages right now that means one out of
every 10,000 people the amazing thing
about bauce is that you just don't know
where you just don't know where the
video is going to go which is why it's
so captivating are famous assuming at
the least that that proportion remains
constant since 2 55 people are born
every minute that means every hour a
future famous person is born their name
destined to become primarily associated
with them not everyone else who shares
their name all of those people will be
relegated to disambiguation or the
postom not the famous One luckily if you
do the math you'll find that even at a
rate of one future famous person born
every hour it would still take dozens of
Millennium for most of us to expect a
future famous person without our exact
name to emerge plus names change new
ones become popular others obsolescent
but for fun let's not focus on names we
popularly use and instead look at how
many possible names there can be the
Social Security Administration allows up
to 36 letters for a complete name now
including space 27 letters filling 36
spots with repetition allowed means
three sex decillion possible
combinations that's more than Earth has
atoms so let's refine our limits how
many pronounceable names are possible
for that I say we look at what randman
Roe the author of The Fantastic what if
did when asked about naming Stars if you
want to give every single star in the
observable universe a unique but
pronounceable English name how long
would the names have to be his
approximation is really fascinating if
we Define a pronounceable word as a word
that contains conent vowel pairs we can
roughly figure that there are about 105
different such pair possibilities 105
that's not too much different from so
funny enough there are about the same
number of consonant vowel pairs possible
as there are two-digit numbers which
means we could give every Star in the
observable universe a sayable unique
name with just 24 letters the same
number of digits it would take to just
number all of them so the bottom line is
we may each have to give up uniquely
owning a word or name that's common
today but the potential number of names
that can be made is really Hardy in fact
before we run out of those our species
will likely evolve to communicate in a
completely different way also names
aren't just labels a name on a screen a
username a handle a screen name doesn't
always act exactly like its owner
usernames can travel more quickly and
more widely than Flesh and Blood people
and do things that their puppeteers
wouldn't normally do away from the
keyboard it's called the online
disinhibition effect if you can't see
the people you're interacting with and
they can't see you you're all just
online hiding behind different names
than usual why hold back I me clearly
such a system can't be serious business
on the internet no one knows you're a
dog why be nice or tell the truth the
subreddit Karma Court investigates and
uncovers people who may think that the
less face to face nature of Internet
makes lives easier to get away with like
this person who posted an image
suggesting that they've been single for
a year but had users found out posted 3
months earlier a picture of my
girlfriend's cat these behaviors aren't
just what humans do when they can be
anonymous or can hide behind different
names these behaviors can also be caused
by the names themselves Studies have
found that the username you use can
impact how you behave your own
pre-existing stereotypes and
expectations of certain words shapes
colors can be confirmed by your behavior
in the same way that studies have found
NFL and NHL players play more
aggressively when wearing black uniforms
that's the amazing thing yeah he brings
in so many different ideas into one
video it feels Meandering but it's like
dude I wonder what vsauce's writing
process is
like where is that text
okay so
um I mean logic is
uh e
no the fact that it uses symbolic
ideas is not the same as a text focused
on symbolics
wait but when did uh this come
out what is
this 1689
and
this 360
BC e
yeah so maybe maybe instead of just
holding a picture up of a of an emoji I
like print out like a bunch of them and
I be like what does this mean to you and
then I just start throwing them down and
they're just different symbols and
they're just all famous
symbols I definitely
want I definitely want my face I want it
to be a real video if you look at pretty
pretty much every Vsauce video it's his
face hey vauce Michael
here and I feel
like that's probably
better also how funny is it that like
the first 100 videos of vsauce's catalog
are just all about like the best video
game
boobs just
like it's just like so funny gratuitous
boobs in gaming like sexy Boba Fett like
I can't believe that's where VSA started
out it's it's just so
silly I like I like
the I like the question video
titles I really really like the ones
that are just like water
or they don't do as well because they're
harder to index I
guess if I love that that's so cool like
to be a big Ballard and just title your
video If or
nothing he mostly does questions
last
words it's crazy that I haven't even
seen them all there's so many hey
Michael here on December 17th 1977 Gary
Gilmore was executed for murder he was
the first prisoner executed by the
United States after a 10-year suspension
of the practice when asked if he had any
last words he simply replied let's do it
years later advertising executive Dan
weiden adapted those words into a slogan
that is now more widely known than Gary
Gilmore last words are powerful they are
the final statement a person's entire
life has been leading up to one last
chance to go on record before
obliteration we don't know Albert
Einstein's last words he spoke them in
German to a nurse who only knew English
they're
lost but what will be our first words
the first words from Earth Earth
extraterrestrials out there might hear
from us so selecting the list of symbols
okay let's let's just say
Okay most famous symbols from all of
human Myster
I'm not putting in the swastika
bro later tragically appropriated that's
actually so funny that chat gbg put that
in there
wow peace is a relatively simple
dude why you keep putting the swasa bro
it's going to be hard because I can't
just throw them
down wait can we go to the actual the
um I want to go to the like
uh e
that the correct name for any given
element of reality needs to fulfill an
elusive natural
standard
Socrates as it introduces platonic forms
in a way that's rep reminiscent of the
fedo
uh but also but it also provides a
somewhat preliminary treatment of issues
that are discussed more fly in later
dialogues the ca what is the chaos
star huh that's not a good uh Chaos
Theory oh yeah like the the like
geometric Unity or whatever it's called
what do they call that it's that it's
like um what what is that called
this is it this is the quote that I was
looking for so at the beginning of sip
there's a quote the acts of the
Mind wherein it exerts its power over
simple
ideas are chiefly these three combining
simple ideas into a compound one and
thus all complex ideas are made
two bringing two ideas whether simple or
complex together and setting them by one
another so as to take a view of them at
once without uniting them into
one by which it gets all its uh it get
gets all its ideas of relations the
third is separating them from all other
ideas that accompany them in their real
existence this is called abstraction
dude this quote is freaking all time
that's insane
man I'm
evolving bro I'm trying to make one good
video I'm trying to make like cuz right
now I just stream and all the videos get
no [__] views cuz they're boring as
hell they're just me like goofing off
but I want to make a good video and and
the thing is okay so let's let's take
let's take an example of a video that I
think sort of occupies the same space of
Mind as the video that I'm going to make
the
inverse square
root this video is one of those
programming videos in 2005 game Company
software open source the engine for
their video game Quake 3 arena in that
source code fans of the game discovered
an algorithm that was so ingenious it
quickly became famous and the only thing
this algorithm does is calculate the
inverse of a square root if I had to
write a piece of code that would
calculate the inverse of a square root
this is how I would do it here I'm using
the C programming language the same
programming language used for Quake 3
but to be fair I wouldn't actually write
the square root in there myself people
work more closely with the c language or
with CP design have already figured out
how to calculate the square root and
they provide that algorithm to us in a
math.h file that we programmers can then
just include in our program so what
could possibly be so interesting about
the quick 3 algorithm no I it's not
really the same space actually I mean
when it started I thought because I
really do want it to
be I don't know I'm actually as this is
since yesterday I've sort of changed my
mind like I do want it to be a video
about computer algebra
yeah you just have to think about the
audience because if it's just a video
about Mathematica then
it basically applies to a pretty Niche
subset of
programmers but what's not clear is if
I'm going to transition
from making a video about Mathematica
targeted towards programmers to a video
about
the sort
of manipulation of symbols on a computer
and just symbolism in
general in the context of programing
it's not clear how
to transition someone that's only
interested that's that's a hooked in by
the symbolism to the Mathematica bit so
it's kind of like
I need to rewrite the script because
right now the script is really the
former which is just this is a video
about Mathematica and how it works but
that's like not that cool bro and the
freaking man himself is live right now
it's just like he just goes so bring it
up again yeah sure okay make sure so as
far as I'm concerned I need to see that
gone okay if it's not dude you just open
it up and he's always just laying down
the damn law going to be gone you must
explicitly get back to me and explain
why okay right
sure why are these things look like look
so terrible here dude he just knows how
to nitpick and like get things right
it's so
sick um wait hold on let's start only
fans
usually people do something stupid or or
unite a community around a project okay
astrology dude Terry Davis yeah he's
great he's so [__] good but um it's
interesting because I I did want to so I
looked so I was thinking about titles
for the video and right now I'm sort of
have like three kind of ideas one is and
this is the original title and this is
sort of what I wrote the script around
is how does Mathematica work built my
own and then in Rust is maybe like maybe
I take that out because it's really a
detail that nobody cares about it's it's
the decision there is
mainly do I think that appealing
specifically to rust audiences is
actually going to like basically the
question is how does including
this how does
including this effect basically the
expect ations of viewer
duration and clickthrough
rate like if it's if the
like yeah whatever anyways that that's
that's all I have to say the other one
is the weirdest programming language and
I looked up I wanted to see in what
category I would be put
beside oh I closed all these tabs but if
I just look up weirdest programming
language you get these Langs
and the thing about these esoteric
languages that I want to add a note
about in my video is that almost none of
these esoteric languages actually
support the crucial feature of
Mathematica which is the fact that if
you type in X without defining it it'll
return itself and so it's actually that
it's like a justification for why the
title weirdest programming language it
does something that these LS they're
actually just like they're they're like
they're like frontend parser changes
they're not actually esoteric in terms
of a fundamental shift and mentality you
know they're just like oh we made it we
made it where you can only use a slash
and a and a and a greater than or less
than sign it's
like it's not that interesting to me
honestly because okay because what is
brain [__] actually
I don't actually
know okay I guess I don't know how it
works
but honestly I don't care I don't care
about brain
[__] is it interpreted or is it uh
compiled I guess it's uh it's um
whatever create slash
matica oh
here what what's an what's a niche
topic damn my stream delay is so
annoying I need to get that stream lay
down oh yeah yeah yeah that that's
right but that's what I'm saying is like
no I disagree I
disagree I I think that there is a
way
realistically okay let's take another
video like
um uh let's take another video like uh
The Busy Beaver
video the boundary of computation this
has a million views
so what I'm trying to say is that and
this is a pretty I wouldn't say esoteric
but I would say
like I would say probably the vast
majority of programmers don't
know about the Busy Beaver
sequence um
so this I would say is sort of
like if you want to think about audience
is sort of the general size of what I
think you could
reach no no no but this would be one
video it's one of those Timeless videos
no no no but this channel was not that
established I don't think oh I guess
you're
right but it wasn't that
established like he was making videos
like high quality videos for a long
time but this was the video that
like where he popped off everything else
is under 100K views except for this
one except for this one but anyways the
point
is this video popped up how does he
start
it algorithm even in theory could
produce numbers that I recently
rewatched the number file videos on
ridiculously huge numbers like Graham's
number and tree3 just complete brain
melting monsters but this time one part
caught my attention
is busy beaver of a Google bigger than
tree of a Google yeah I think the answer
is yes I think the answer is yes it's
that kind of ballpark you know yeah oh
yeah yeah yeah certainly certainly these
These are these are monsters these are
monsters and so I went down the rabbit
hole of the Busy Beaver numbers and oh
my God I'm convinced this is the most
mind-blowing function in existence I
found out that no algorithm even in
theory could produce numbers that that
keep Pace with this P I still I still
don't understand the
proof not a random five Subs Channel
with a
dude oh no no no no but I'm not that's
not going to be this video I'm going to
like be dressed I'm going to do it like
a Vsauce video
like
take this he's dress let's see hey he
pops up I'll do that hey vauce Michael
here what is the biggest number you can
think of a Google a Google Plex a
million million
oplex well in reality the biggest number
is
40 covering more than 12,000 sare M of
Earth this 40 made out of strategically
planted trees dude he's so oh my God bro
he's so in
Russia Battalion markers on Signal Hill
in Calgary the six found on the faen
badges in England even the mind he just
he knows how to toy with the mind so
freaking
well you'd buy into my
[Music]
C dude I like what you're thinking
though like you really thinking about a
peel but I don't want to play into the
Terry Davis thing I'm not Terry Davis
bro
dude that's crazy the biggest number he
just oh that's so freaking genius the
six found on the faen badges in England
even the mile of piie Brady unrolled on
number file 40 is the biggest
number on Earth in terms of surface area
but in terms of amount of things which
is normally what we mean by A number
being big 40 probably isn't the biggest
for example there's
41 and then there's
42 and
43 a billion a trillion you know no
matter how big of a number you can think
of you can always go higher so there is
no biggest last
number except
Infinity no Infinity is not a number
instead it's a kind of number you need
infinite numbers to talk about and
compare amounts that are unending but
some unending amounts some infinities
are literally bigger than others let's
visit some of them and the amazing thing
about this look this got I mean
obviously this was can we go to social
blade and look at dude I feel like
social blade sucks too wait but let's go
to uh the
sauce and we want to look at the sub
count
graph what a terrible
dude how do I find the graph of
subscribers over the past 10 years can
you get an all
time I don't think you can get in
H that's sucks
man your oh that was your initial but
that's that's your initial impression on
my stream and I'm fine to uh do that on
stream but like this is not going to go
on my stream channel this is going to go
on a channel that's
specifically for my like highquality
project videos like eventually I'm going
to put the turret like I make a high
quality turret
video and I want to make one about
Mathematica and but I don't want it to
be yeah [__] I guess I cannot put the
word like if I was a big baller I don't
know if you were here when I said this I
think I you probably were but if I were
a big baller I would just make the video
titled
X it's going to be hard to transition a
video titled X
into explaining how Mathematica
works that is the big
oh x equals x I know I know I was
worried about the Twitter thing too
yeah yeah yeah x equals
x but there's something so baller about
it just being the letter X
because x equals
x what is that convey that's new that
that at least puts you in the
okay we're talking about
algebra that's looks like an equation
because the use of
equals
um but just X it's so
beautiful but I agree that I don't think
that the algorithm
would unless it like I don't know yeah
it's going to be tough but I agree that
like there's a lot of advantages to xal
X that's crazy that you can't get an all
time wait
this only goes back a year oh wait no
wait hold on this goes back a mon
I thought they did have a fiveyear
thing what does social blade premium
give you
who similar
channels I don't even know these
people I feel like this is going to be a
very yeah see this is not emotional
motivational
videos yeah it's some Indian guy these
videos are going to be nothing like
Vsauce That's So Random
also wait he m just do
shorts yeah that's so silly that's not
even there's no intelligence going on
there I'm going to the bathroom I'll be
right
back
e e
okay um what was I going to do I was
going to look up
um oh yeah dude I want to show you this
DJI Neo thing this thing is so [__]
cool it's
$200 and it's 135 grams it's just
insane and I think that this
has oh dude this thing is so cool man 4K
oh my god dude
dude this thing is so cool I wonder what
uh let's go to the tech
specs I want to know about the camera
okay oh here's the
gimbal I don't know why they always do
mechanical range and controllable range
range what is the point of even giving
us mechanical range if we can only
control it this much WoW 100 a second
dude this thing is so good I want to buy
one of these so bad it just came out
bro I don't know what the no RC
obviously it's
um why does it say no
RC dude obviously it's out of stock it's
literally like the coolest thing
ever dude that's so
funny bro do they
even what's the combo give
you it gives you three batteries
it's mainly that you just get extra
batteries and you get a charging
Hub okay so you get 20 minutes of flight
time dude I buy I buy one of these I
want to get
notified um display capture
dude oh my God I want one of these so
bad when does Vsauce start to
do like can we can we start
to like okay so about 14 years ago he
starts the
channel today we are going to be giving
you the 411 on some things that are
going down for the E3
conference a new Dr Mario game is going
to be announced at E3 I know you as Dr
Mario are actually working at a free
clinic for the members of Jersey Shore
yeah each level is one of the members of
Jersey Shore the last level Snookie it's
covered inir I I'll have to be honest I
cannot even fathom trying to finish that
board yo I can't beat Snookie there's a
new Uncharted
game what the
[__] where's the first first one
where is that Michael
wait that's not that's definitely not
him this is
him that's so freaking weird dude so he
leaves up a bunch of random
stuff dude vau literally like compare
like veritasium is up there but Vsauce
in terms of just like his approach and
his the whole thing he's all time he's
he's just like insanely goated and it's
just so funny that this the first time I
even knew about his hilarious background
of just like
do you remember D this is what would
happen if Mario had a magic mushroom oh
I love
that someone's
hallucinating what I love about this is
The Game Genie codes themselves are
hilarious the codes he's using are Zen
Ley pigp and
I in conquer's bed for a day you
actually fight living poop diarrhea
comes alive it's after you it's freaking
scary it is the most scary villain ever
can you imagine if your poop rose out of
the toilet and they wanted to attack you
that's eco Li that did happen to me last
we week actually but I had these weird
tacos this WTF was submitted to bauce by
the staffs and I couldn't be more
thankful Splinter Cell Chaos Theory this
guy has I don't know some sort of broken
spine or something and it looks like
he's
um this is the Holy Grail of every
dude's fantasy I don't see what's so
weird about it I think it's freaking
amazing I think he deserves a mle dude
it's so funny that there's so much
random sexual content in in his old
videos I me he just I don't know who
this woman is but he gets some hot girl
and he's just like I don't know
it's so random
man they did stand up at Comic-Con what
is the history of
vau for
dude right like how silly is that it's
just so
funny um where was I okay wait so we're
trying to figure out basically when did
he start to transition and what was his
first video cuz I want to
see dude I mean there's so much just
like hot dude it's just like so
silly oh my god dude there just it's
just like so many boobs bro
hey bauce I've got a quick and fun video
for you today because I made a mistake
last week on episode 10 of IMG I showed
a picture and I said cats and dogs
cooperating however if you look at the
picture for more than a second you can
tell that it's not a cat it's a monkey
when a commenter pointed that out to me
my mind was blown and so now I'm going
to return the favor prepare to get blown
in the mind first stop Super Mario
Galaxy many of you may have already
discovered this but if you read each
letter and only each letter that has a
star underneath it on the cover of the
game it spells out you are Mr gay dude
that still he's he's go it's crazy how
goated Michael Stevens
is like all right let's take let's take
vitasia veritasium is more directed it's
not
as his oldest videos will probably be
those man on the street type of thing
yeah exactly
and they're
short they are all science videos
though man on the street things
he he doesn't go as abstract with it
like all right let's see what are his
most popular
videos all right th this video is all
time for sure I don't remember really
how does it start
off these are shade balls they're being
dumped into this water reservoir in Los
Angeles and contrary to what you may
have heard their main purpose is not to
reduce evapor
so what are they really to find out I'm
visiting the largest collection of these
balls anywhere on Earth at La Reservoir
okay so we're 30 seconds into the
video
and what's the
thumbnail
right why are 96 million black balls on
this Reservoir that's the title
what should the thumbnail be hey okay
that is
um that is my question to you because
you're providing some pretty good
comments what if I'm going to make this
video which
is okay let's just say we get everything
we want which
is
it's it it starts off with a broad
audience
and the expectation is basically it's
just a
video about symbols and maybe
we ah dude I don't know how to write
this video I need to
just but if I just look up
symbol yeah it's always music that gets
um dude Adrien Linker has a song called
[Music]
symbol e
dude come
on easy
you'll never
believe number five will shock
you now
what okay here's what I'm trying to
figure out so if it's just a video but
the history of symbols then it's just
like a video essay and it's
lame okay I'm G to take a break from
looking at my computer I'm just going to
Pace back and forth for a little bit I
got to think about
this
for e
okay here's what here's what I'm
thinking maybe
so so
you start off a video and you're holding
a stack of papers and they're like color
printed
um symbols and you say what does this
mean to you and this or this what about
this and and they're all like I don't
know I would start off with the I would
definitely start off with the poop emoji
I feel like that's going to be really
that's great I'm so down to do that what
does this mean to you how about this and
it's and maybe after like three or four
it ends with
X
um and then the idea would
be you you would transition to talking
about
programming by saying
what what goes what the subtext
is that
programming
is the most successful
formal
uh
uh I mean programming is the act
of formally defining the usage of
patterns of
symbols uh and and using that as a proxy
for doing things or for performing
actions and
so so the question there is then
is it good that's the problem is it good
all right we're going to
do poop emoji
what does this mean to you how about
this or this
for tens of thousands of years humans
have used symbols to
communicate but I don't want to just
give a history lesson because a history
lesson is so lame
dude dude you're so good man that's so
funny oh wait I want to say
muted oh wait can I say muted I don't
know what's up man I guess you mute the
stream dude this this picture is so good
is it dude it's so
funny just atrocious
honestly
what oh wait your mic is kind of
quiet um I was trying to connect my uh
gosh how was it called like a headphones
that it put put into your ears like ins
oh God yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah I was want to connect them
yeah how your how your robit your thing
huh how do you your RIT like a uh here
I'll I'll show you so I have so okay so
yeah you were in this stream so two days
ago or wait no yesterday no no two days
ago I designed
this
yesterday so two days ago I designed
this and the problem with this was that
um yeah yeah I remember they all would
get stuck inside no no no that was the
other one this is this is new so this so
oh yeah so I forgot oh so I got oh no no
no no I'm I'm dumb last night I designed
this yeah and uh it's supposed to fit
this thing called a solenoid in it and a
solenoid basically is a coil of wire
with like a nail in it basically and
when you put current through these wires
this thing shoots forward yep and so I
designed this last night but the problem
with this is the hole the way I design
it the hole was too
small and so I was templating out and I
think I got it working exactly how I
want it so if you have a ball like this
it doesn't go all the way through but
with the thing it goes and it and it
comes out so oh yeah so I probably
should reprint this so I can test this
little later um but I've been obsessed
with this V this idea of uh trying to
make this video because I really do
think like there should be a video that
like that like concisely to a to a
general programmer audience explains why
uh Mathematica is such a sick
language that's a different video than
the
shouldn't thing right yeah yeah yeah
yeah so this I mean I'm still in the
progress of of building this so the
video for this isn't going to come out
for probably at least a month or two but
I I simultaneously want
to
start here I'll just show you what I
have so far I think I played it
but um so right now this is how I was
going to start the video let me mute my
mic
in
it wait here maybe wa let's see how bad
it comes through every programming
language erors if you try to use a
variable before defining it I all right
so yeah so that was actually I I'm I'm
not an editor right so this is like all
new to me so making it visually
captivating and like doing all of that
is like a huge challenge for me but
basically this is how I was going to
start the V so I yesterday I sort of
wrote the draft of the
script that
is that is
titled that is titled um how does
Mathematica work I built my own to find
to find
out which I think is like um not
terrible but pretty pretty narrow in its
audience appeal like there's pretty
small group of people that would be
interested in clicking on that um and
the intro to the video is showing that
basically none of the programming
languages that people actually use
Python JavaScript C rust Etc Java
whatever um allow you to refer to a
variable or an identifier without first
defining
it um I don't know what do you think of
that hook what do you think of the start
of the start sentence wait but Java wait
wa wait wait JavaScript
does no if you like startup node you
just startup node and you type in X it
says X is not
defined yeah because it is not defined
it's
undefined yeah but that's what I'm
saying strict mode it's a When you
mention a variable in JavaScript even if
you haven't declared it with lat or con
far you can still use
it you're talking about like in a
function box or something like
that yeah no no no but that's what I'm
saying as as long as it's not a strict
mode if a strict Noe then you'll get the
reference exemption because the value
wasn't
defined but in the nonstrict mode you
can how do I turn on non-strict mode
then honestly I'm not sure if it works
in
rle uh where do I go to try
it can you just do something like xal 1
yeah but now but then x equals
1 yeah because it's defined now but
that's what the variable itself is not
declared but the value inside of the
variable is well okay there's a bit of
misunderstanding I believe there is a
type in node in JavaScript right in V8
and in a standard of ecmascript called
undefined you can have a declared
variable of type undefined oh wait how
do I do
that actually any variable has Type
undefined U well until the moment you
define it as something you can oh wait
oh okay yeah for sure wait that's not
what I wanted I wanted this wait why
can't
I okay right so
so okay but but still okay so I get your
point but still the behavior of
JavaScript is that when it's running and
it hits something of type undefined it
errors no it doesn't it will return
undefined but then why is it when I type
or why or sorry I don't know why it
keeps doing
yield I understand IDE there will be
yield wait the yield either is already I
think it's keyword in a generator
functions yeah yeah yeah that was a
mistake what I'm what I'm talking about
is this last line is why uncaught
reference
error I believe it's because it's trying
to pass it in
into some sort of
serializer and this serializer does not
support undefined values because well
it's an undefined value that's like a
null in U in Java or that JavaScript you
also have n but it has slightly
different notation to it okay but the
Antics are still different like I think
my point still stands is it's not a
symbolic language in that when I type X
and then enter I get back literally the
exact same
thing like yeah you get the value of x
right but the value of x is
itself yeah it's it's undefined because
you haven't assigned anything to X I
believe it makes sense yeah but but
considering that it's a a food gun
essentially because you may you may met
a type for instance you had a variable
called X1 and you accidentally return X2
that wasn't assigned wasn't declared and
you suddenly get undefined that's why uh
standard commit of JavaScript decided it
was a good idea to disallow using not
declared variables in a strict
mode right but what I'm saying is that
yeah so in most languages consider it a
a a problem a foot gun to basically not
be able
to or to be able
to refer to identifiers that don't have
definitions that are undefined but
Mathematica is fundamentally different
in that it uses it as its main feature
because now I can replace
X and replace it with something else or
replace with one replace it with a whole
different you
know a whole different
thing I guess I don't know much about
Mathematica like if it's a feature I
mean cool I mean could
work well you don't remember I mean you
were there for a lot of the development
of that though I remember showing this
anyways all I'm saying is that yeah yeah
I mean I I I remember it works I
remember that the
that I'm not sure if I would call it the
main feature like schol it absolutely is
the the the fact that it's symbolic that
I can do x * X even though X is not
defined where can you do that where can
I do y *
why or wait let's just do you why wait
wait
like cuz now I wait but go ahead wait
but that that's an assumption of a y
being a type with a defined operation of
why of of
multiplication yeah that that is
true yeah that's true like can you have
like can you have strings in wallframe
as variable what happens if you multiply
string by by string that's a good
question
High Square dude that's so [__] cool
that's so [__] cool
man dude that's
[Music]
awesome I mean yeah it just treats it as
a name of a
variable no no no the the head of this
is going to be different oh wait the
head is going to be pal let's do this
um we had what is
had uh okay so
um okay so if you
remember the okay let's just take a
normal expression so this is an
expression in MA in Mathematica power of
the string
High comma 2
so head is an operation let's just see
what the documentation is but the head
returns that power so head Returns the
first element of the list so you have an
expression and you have an you just
return the top the top thing of that
node so yeah head of f of
a yeah dude it's so it's so sick like
like you cannot you cannot call a
function is this how you call a function
probably right you cannot but in this
program you can just call a
function and it just
itself and then you know you pass around
this stuff and you manipulate just the
symbolic representation of calling a
function with three different
arguments um and it doesn't error
because they all these symbols just
evaluate to
themselves I me isn't it just a
syntax no you could do something
extremely similar in JavaScript by um
immediately invoked function
all right if you if you can show me how
you can I mean I I mean I'm positive
that there's literally no way to do
exactly this in in JavaScript with the
same synx no no obviously no because
that just
made as short as possible because what
it we what we would do essentially in
JavaScript you would declare a function
that you would immediately call it you
do you do it with an extra that of
parentheses you wrap a function and then
you call
it in this case you would probably like
send it to debug menu to display
itself yeah ex J doesn't have much of
reflection so anyways um yeah so anyways
the the video is basically going to be
describing that this
sets this idea that symbols can just be
treated as symbols in the world and that
later you know it's just taking the idea
of algebra to the the next level you
know really you have symbols that just
refer to things in the world like trees
or animals or
people and uh takes that to the extreme
of like symbols are just symbols in
themselves like the most amazing thing
is if you wanted to implement Boolean
like okay if I let's just say that I
have my true this is a symbol and my
true my false is also a symbol if I
wanted to start to define booleans the
way I would do it is I would just say
not of not of or of well the coolest
thing is that they already have all of
these symbols but
basically uh not of true returns false
but true is just a symbol it's just a
name like in other languages you have to
like manually Implement all this but
Boolean data types are implemented in
the language
itself so if I do what I'm confused not
of high don't all languages have
volums like this is the coolest thing to
me is
like like just it's all a pattern like
they have a pattern where if you Nest
knots then they cancel
out uh is it log of x yeah you you you
can do it in C+ CL I
think but I feel like I feel like you're
not getting my point though like the
point is that other languages
you you can overwrite not uh not
operators any type in there yeah but you
but that's what I'm saying it's okay
let's say you have not not and you
overwrite it on strings but and it just
Returns the string itself but like can
you do the symbolic simplification that
not of not of high you do is you'd have
to make a type called not and it would
like wrap a string and then you'd have
to
like I don't know if like not gets
called on another knot then it
eliminates but this is like all defined
in a pattern like the way I would do it
in cast 3 is I would say knot of knot of
pattern x uh what is it I forget how to
write this I'm pretty sure it's like
that is uh oh yeah holy moly set
delayed and and then you just write X
and so literally this describes for any
expression in the entire language that
you give it for any input X if there's
two knots you just delete them so it's
like it's like so
powerful it
is I mean that's that's the purpose of
the language I guess right that's what
I'm saying is you you have to concede
that like even though all these
languages that we're talking about
JavaScript C++ they're turning complete
so you can do all of this but they're
not the same they're it's not it's just
not how those languages
operate those languages are like okay I
need to do this little procedure and I
need you to specify the data before you
do anything whereas this says okay you
can just give me the data later I'll
build up the expression and then once
you're ready to swap out the symbols for
real values you can do
that right so like I can just
give you an F of XYZ where nothing is
defined and you can be like well once I
get my XYZ then I can replace this with
um and so it's just like a
very a different way to do
things that's
convenient but I agree there's a ton of
foot guns like if I say xal X Plus plus
one I get a stack
Overflow
interesting because what it's trying to
do what the set so if I if I pipe this
into a uh I think full form
holds okay well whatever the full form
of this expression meaning if I were to
write it out simply as an S expression
or an M expression in this case it would
be no yeah it would be set x x + one or
plus X1 so this is what that expression
here looks like and what set does is set
literally just takes this and replaces
it with this but then this
um it's just going to keep recursing
because now when you evaluate x x is set
as the expression this so it's just
going to keep doing it
what you could do is um you could do y
is uh you could do what's called a set
delayed which means it doesn't actually
evaluate this until the variable is
called so this will work but now y has a
a definition and the second that I
evaluate this it's going to recurse
Forever
okay reminds me of
um of cotland
streams of cotland
what a streams like oh wait was it in
Java yeah I think in ctland streams are
eager and in Java they're lazy can you
do something similar oh yeah right you
can delay the evaluation of it until
later
but so for yeah yeah and you could youly
set the variable as well but so for most
function
definitions um you do
delayed
uh what is oh wait let me do fact
because I always forget wait FIB is just
FIB of n minus
one uh oh wait FIB of n minus one plus
uh Vib of uh nus two is that right I
always forget yeah and then uh so you
can you do this and then you just say
FIB of
zero is defined wa don't you need like
conditions yeah no it's all pattern
matched so yeah yeah makes sense is this
right I forget if this is anyways now I
can do FIB of obviously you need the
dynamic programming like this is
actually a a slow definition but it
demonstrates the uh pattern matching
what it be dynamic under the hood I mean
it would cash every result wouldn't
it makes sense no I don't I don't think
so I think it has to recurse I I don't
think that there's
any because it's not going to be in here
it's not call it's not
it's not going to be
defining these it's this is the slow
implementation it's not going to cash
anything okay I mean it would make sense
if it did
because in in expression you would have
everything
defined you would have
to I don't I don't know how you would do
it but you would have to call set you'd
have to cost
set you'd have to call set within the
body of this function so that anytime
it like in here it modifies the uh the
global State there's a context that
determines all this stuff that remembers
that x equals one if you define X or
whatever
okay but it the the coolest thing it's
just that you have uh wait clear all how
do you use this
again oh wait can't you just do it for
everything anyways
um that's a little refresher of it but
yeah so
the so anyways now that we've done a
Refresh on Mathematica the the first
sentence the of the video is almost
every programming language errors if you
try to use a variable before defining it
which I think is a true
statement like um I mean it's just a
syntax isn't it in Mathematica you just
when you use
the well any anything you define it at
the same
time it's honestly it just seems to be a
rather minor d to that's what I'm saying
but it's not a minor detail that's what
I'm saying the whole language is
centered around the idea that symbols
can be referred to without defining
them
okay I don't
know that just sounds like a huge food
gun to me
but
okay it's so powerful the fact that you
can
like no know I mean it's really
convenient when you define a
mathematical formula right or some kind
of
expression makes sense I mean imagine if
you would have like a like 10 lets about
your your
expression what is that thing that uh is
it
box or uh uh where's that thing that
draws a oh framed
that's so sick dude I mean like where
else can you do that where like you have
so okay here I'll show you so the result
of this is an expression of f of f of f
all the way down to Fu and then you
replace
that with the function framed and now
you have a bunch of boxes around
it I mean just so cool so the fact that
f is not defined is actually
[Music]
superpow because what you would have to
do in every other language is you would
have to call nest of
framed which is the same thing but here
you're like okay maybe at the time I
don't really know what f is but I can
mess around with it
later I mean look look you're right in
the sense that virtually every popular
programming languages programming
language that people actually use in
production does not do it this way and
it's for good reason it's because this
is sort of a foot gun bigger
huh because the scope is much bigger you
just write a single expression imagine
if you had like a a random variable name
in a code base of thousand lines or a
million lines you're like what the hell
is this food doing in here
yeah I mean
yeah that you had a like database sucess
layer
or anything and there you have a UND
declared function with a short
name I've seen it
somewhere yeah
but anyways so just
like yeah
that would be one of what two
videos this would be one of two videos
yeah right now pretty much have two
videos in the
pipeline would you make another Channel
or I I have another channel do you do
you are you sub to my
channel YouTube I think I've been there
but I'm yeah I'm not subed okay I have
but I've been there I visited it some
music get there yeah yeah oh that's okay
that's the other one so I have one where
I post okay I think it's all Linked In
Discord but I have this one which is
basically just all of the streams so all
of the streams I have logged but then
there's uh another one which is this
one and this one this one has music but
this is where I'm this is where I'm
going to put the
uh this is where I'm going to put the
um Mathematica video
okay but so anyways
that I
mean I like that you're chat you're
challenging me on this because like I
really want this video to be good and
it's hard since I since I just you know
a year ago I spent like a 100 hours and
basically a month of my life devoted to
recreating Mathematica so like it's hard
for me to distance myself already can
see people oh I'm sorry no go ahead
yeah I'm just I can already see people
in comments saying so so what yeah like
so what right what's so cool about
it what's so cool about
it like okay Boomer
yeah so okay so I had that in my
to-dos and this was okay so like this
was what I had is a good I I I need a
good explanation for why symbolic
programming is powerful and the examples
that I were going to show is that you
can easily Implement Boolean logic and
and basically algebraic simplifications
and so I was going to do two things
uh the simplification of Boolean
Expressions by writing patterns like
what I just showed you and then the
other one is showing that it's really
easy to
implement uh the D like derivatives like
to compute the derivative of algebraic
expressions like writing the product
rule is can you
define yeah
yeah uh is it possible to define the
method operation function
itself like can you define
not can I define
not yeah this okay that's that's a very
good one that's actually what I should
do so okay let's say we have not and
this is my KN so okay here we can see
not is undefined right now because it
returns itself right so now this is how
I would Define not
not of the symbol
true is defined as
false not of false is defined as
true now I can do not of
true and I can do not of not of
true wait what happens if you have not
not
five it just returns
itself there's no pattern that matches
that
expression but how do you make it return
five okay not of KN of x wait no no
sorry uh wait wait this will
work okay so this is the definition
where not double KN eliminates
so basically what this stands for this
underscore is it it means that X is a
named pattern of expression and that
pattern of expression is matches any
expression so now if I do not KN of
five I get back
five awesome did it this scroll up and
show me what's what's left in that
um where
[Music]
where you had not not thing somewhere on
top oh yeah this oh
here yeah
yeah oh wait what was that log thing oh
guess this one so the so e to the x of
log of x eliminates this is a similar
example of how not not so the way that
this would be defined is X of log of x
pattern is defined as X so this is
another one of these ways that it's
super easy to start writing symbolic
simplifications in the language itself
so the reason why the language is so
cool is working with symbols allows you
to Define patterns on just combinations
of symbols without reference to what
their type really is now I could say
this too
where this only hold I think I'm being
ascended here
huh I think I'm being ascended here oh
[__] yeah I'm getting this so okay um
hell yeah as far as I understand the the
symbol itself does not have the inherit
meaning in the language except the
predefined mention it has except sorry I
didn't catch the last
part except predefined menchion
so for instance this not thing that you
have an in 11 right it's just that
standard Library defines not as a like
not nde of x equals x
right so it's it's not like not is is an
embedded uh thing into the language it's
just the part of the standard exctly
library of symbols not is implemented in
the language itself that's what's so
cool
okay I
understand so you can effectively create
any any operation yeah that would look
like a standard symbol a standard
operation like
uh say like operation like maybe two
that uh multiplies every even number and
every odd number would be would be the
same wait what do you
mean so what I'm saying is that you
could also create some
uh like a custom oper how do you even
call them is I would call them operation
because in another language that would
usually be operation right like a note
operation what I was saying is that you
could probably also create something um
like something similarly random say
operation that multiplies only even
numbers
right oh right yeah yeah yeah uh right
so
uh so okay I forget how you do
condition patterns but yes you can you
can you can match on on
conditionals right this is an example
so f ofx is defined as some other thing
only if so now if I do F of five I get
PPP of X but if I do uh oops F of minus
one I get F of minus
one the thing is this is one of those
things that I wait wait wait wait wait
hold on hold on I need to P this
thing wait where does minus one come
from wait what do you mean I just typed
in minus one
why does F5 returns PPP I can't see that
okay so why does it return it's because
of this so This in so we have a function
definition here and this I understand
understand whole expression I understand
how sorry okay go ahead I I just don't
understand how it affects the result
like uh in Line 39 you have like a if
anything comes into F into function f
then return return PPP X right
and then like if x more than zero zero
then what no yeah so I can see why
returns pppp because five more than zero
right I I understand in 40 right in 42
doesn't seem to make sense like yeah I I
do understand that it's less than zero
but is it is it just the default
behavior that kicks in because
the let's parse this okay all right so I
know this is a jumble but just uh stick
with me so wait I have only one question
yeah in in 42 and out 42 do we get minus
6 because the default in codes behavior
of a function kicks in that is a when we
pass it into the function it returns
itself because the condition online in40
three does is not matched exactly so
exactly so now if I were to do this if I
were to oops if I were to do
this oh wait uh wait sorry wait hold on
I messed up so I'm gonna evaluate
this wait did I okay yeah there and then
I'm going to do less than
zero and now
I understand
yeah yeah yeah I got it um another
question is how do you make wait okay
never mind it's not a question I wanted
to ask is how do you make else but it
does doesn't make sense because you can
just match the inverted so if we go to
cast 3 standard library in cast 3
standard Library I have um
startup
probably okay so here very noise
extension you have there
what I'm saying that very noise
extension file extension you have there
oh sexp yeah hell
yeah um so I defined so I I wrote If
this is all the whole definition of if
if
true um then you eval so this is a a a
function definition uh on the the head
if and it takes three things it
takes hold on wa it's so hard for me to
parse this thing the square thing were
honestly easier a bit for me no I agree
and that's why it was just easy for me
to write this parser but I agree that
the other way of doing it is way
better I'm like you know I'm just trying
to find another set of um like they CL
in Pary every single time yeah yeah I
know is s d same as s delayed yeah
yeah okay could you please explain it
then okay so if true so so that's then
what right so okay wait
so okay the head of set there the first
argument to set D is going to be that
right hand side of the uh let's see
where's my Mathematica okay so
this this definition it has a set
delayed at the beginning and it takes in
the pattern object so this pattern
object is what we're working with here
so what what the pattern is for the
input of if is three things so it takes
three arguments if takes three arguments
first it takes basically the the value
of the condition then it takes basically
what happens what it's going to turn
into if true and what it would turn into
if not true so basically if we match
this expression all we do is return X
but if we return false then we do the
second
argument that didn't feel like a good
explanation but I'm trying to think of a
better way to
um describe it I I forget what could you
please show me how it works in the S
okay okay so let's do our own if yeah so
if so
if um it's going to be a uh condition
and then AB so this is the general
format of if calls in the language
right so basically what this means is if
C is true we want to evaluate
a if C is not if C is not true then we
want to evaluate
b or specifically if C is false we want
to evaluate
B I'm pretty sure if you do if zzz a b
it it returns itself but if you do if
false
a you get
B okay
so if is defined in terms of U true and
false that are already defined in the
static standards at in the library yeah
basically yeah and it's defined in terms
of a pattern and it says this fits the
pattern um where so if we were to Define
our own if if would be if false and I'm
doing lowercase because it's
specifically not this false but it
doesn't really matter x x blank
y or wait let's do a blank b blank is
defined as a so what we're saying is if
you remember the blank means the
underscore blank means that this can
stand for literally any expression it
will match on any
expression so if so this definition will
match the
following and you know this could be a
function call with XYZ in it this could
be another thing it really doesn't
matter could even be a higher order
function where it calls itself but it
doesn't matter because it's still going
to oh wait I can't evaluate X because
um because we already defined it as that
X plus one thing so oh yeah wait no no
actually we could it won't get I don't
think it'll get all evaluated if we did
this oh no it it still evaluates that
that's fine
though what was happen wait oh wait wait
my
bad and then wait I actually want to
look at
uh hold rest oh yeah hold rest so wait
this will
work do I have that I probably do have
that cuz
otherwise let's let's test it out do I
have I don't even know if I have
um how do I zoom out and what I want to
run my and minus how do I zoom out what
the hell okay shift and minus yeah okay
so
um oh yeah I can't for some reason I
can't do it in my terminal okay
um oh there is a 10 and something
um collapse I don't know oh wait I have
to compile cast 3 really
quick oh
no but yeah so oh wait I'll probably lag
you probably won't be able to hear me
because I'm gonna lag like
crazy what are you trying to do that
what well I want I want to test if I'm
matching the behavior just for my own
sake I mean I could just check the
source code but oh
no oh no oh no oh no wait hold on I
could try uh
well oh yeah actually no but I I I don't
know if you remember but I actually made
Cass
8 so I I I made a bunch of versions as I
was trying to get the pattern matcher to
work but
um this one does not depend on that
stupid uh m m Precision thing it depends
on I think that in the expression type I
don't even use a
um
big yeah I don't use big ins or big
floats I just use normal
floats
um so that I didn't have to depend on GB
or any of that crap
cuz I remember that wasn't um so let's
see but the thing is I don't think I
have any of the
um oh I do I have bull so let's go to
um just t is more or less deprecated
now
okay H one sec okay set delayed of
X Plus X1 so if I were to Type X and
enter in here I'm going to get a um
crash so now I want to test if false X
what why oh so what I would need to do
is
um to
um but hold rest my not be wait no is it
hold rest no no it's not hold
rest oh yeah it's hold rest I don't know
if I implemented hold
rest I don't know if Cass 8 actually has
any oh yeah I did I'm sick Bro dude this
language is so [__]
good oh my God I'm so proud of this [__]
it's so good
oh hell yeah I'm so happy with
that okay uh I have no idea what what it
means but there's there's another layer
there's another layer on top
of um how the how the evaluator of
Mathematica Works which I do want to
include in the script because it's kind
of important but basically they have an
attribute system which is a way of
tagging symbols with like meta
information and it's all implemented
well
it's some of it is implemented on the
rust side but then the way that you set
attributes is implemented intern in the
language itself but basically I called
this expression I called this function
attributes on the symbol if and it gave
me back a list so if I were to call full
form on this again those curly braces
are just a a wrapper around the the
expression list but anyways you get a
list of symbols back and these symbols
the evaluator what to do and so
basically what hold rest does is it will
evaluate the first but it will not
evaluate the rest so basically it stops
it stops evaluation at the first one and
it doesn't it doesn't evaluate this and
the reason why this is a good test of
that is
because if it evaluated the rest of its
arguments then it would have evaluated X
and X would have crashed the program but
since since we didn't crash it means
that X and Y were not evaluated up until
the pattern was matched so it evaluated
F false and then it just kept going and
so then we didn't crash so that that's
like that's like how I know that this is
that this hold rest attribute set worked
properly and so now I could just I could
just put this in the standard Library of
my programming language I could just put
this up here and then it would like
[Music]
work oh oh wait because I evaluated
X oh I just love that so much and then
you can just do uh set
y uh replace all y z of Z or wait it's
easy I mean you can just do so
much oh no oh wait that
wait oh yeah no I know why dude I'm so I
the thing is that there's not a lot of
safeguards in this language so it's very
easy to crash the program but yeah it
just needs to be a
list uh oh yeah and then you need to do
um oh replace
all right list rule
y okay there we go and then we make set
y equal to this then we do this
wait oh
wait okay anyways it's just like you can
just play around with expressions and
with no regard to what they really mean
it's just like such a wild
thing
um but yeah so it's clear to me though
just describing this to you that it's
going to be pretty hard to get this
script to
be
exciting and to to to fully you know and
clearly explain what it is that sets it
apart and it's pretty opice
right well I don't know we've been on
just that you would need to make it fun
yeah I need to make it
fun yeah I right now I don't really have
any of
the um the funny stuff or the thing that
keeps people engaged it's right now it's
mostly just like what is it that I want
to
say without it and then I was going to
like add it in
later hey just make sure you don't
forget red arrow uh Blick baits and Bo
dude I love that thing you put in
Discord
so with the mathematical logo too and
the poop emoji bro I honestly like
lowkey I might use that that's like so
funny no oh
no that's would
the oh man how late is it there is it
late for
you at uh it's almost 11: p.m. yeah
you're um you're plus N9 yeah you're
plus
nine plus nine technically on plus one
all
[Laughter]
right
what what oh oh yeah from from GMT or
something yeah yeah okay yeah oh yeah
right no I'm GMT minus 8 you're right
you're you're plus n relative to me is
what I'm at
yeah yeah I got it yeah
that's oh my God
actually wait GMT isn't it called UTC or
what was the difference oh yeah yeah I
think I'm thinking of
UTC wait is UTC the same as GMT
actually hey a GMT is measured from
midday whereas UTC is measured from
Midnight what oh really so what I didn't
know that that's so rare
that's goofy as
hell is UTC minus 6 and GMT minus 6 the
same and does that mean it's us local
time oh God it's astronomy versus Atomic
oh God
what that's awful GMT is meur from
midday whereas UTC is measured from
Midnight UTC is the legal basis of the
world
what
the okay we're probably on the same
astronomy versus atomic clock we're
probably on the same stack Overflow
post yeah yeah I left this post because
that's just
nonsense it's too many words I'm not
reading that yeah let me ask
CHT oh here GMT is mean solar time
calculated at the green witch Meridian
Meridian how do I pronounce that and UDC
is based on extremely regular ticken of
CM atomic
clocks
uh all
right I me I I guess I tend to trust
cium Atomic CLS more than dollar time
measured somewhere at the grin witch
yeah there we go I didn't even realize
that they were different I honestly just
sort of assumed they were the same
that's
so oh yeah in practice both G and UTC
are used
interchangeably yeah yeah just just they
different how they measure their tone
yeah
yeah that's so
Random okay so anyways this is the
script I have so far if you have notes I
would I can share it to you
too where a script I didn't see it am I
on stream yet oh yeah yeah just DeLay So
yeah so this is what I have right now
but I really want it to be like I've
been watching uh videos and just like
thinking
about about writing but in general just
about making something that people want
to watch and before you do anything you
really have to Define and think about
the audience that you're intending it
for and so
right now this script is intending it is
intended for just a programming audience
but for me to be satisfied with the
video I think I want to transition to
something that captures the imagination
of just like that captures the
imagination and just talks it it's more
it's it's like more of a Timeless video
talking about symbols and how we we
developed these computers that can
manipulate symbols but it's weird that
almost none of the programming languages
just let us talk about symbols as being
placeholders for
anything and
so uh I have to like rework this but uh
I'll just I'll just do a quick readr of
what it is right now almost every
programming language I didn't scroll up
but scroll down yeah I I already read it
oh you read it sweet yeah
so uh
so so this is where this is to the
end
okay
H I'm do be confused where
uh literally just a symbol symbol yeah
yeah yeah so so it it's weird
because it's like the true false thing
it's like it's like you can type in
symbol
like like symbol is a
symbol wait syb what's a symbol like
your thing or symbol is is like the the
thing like what I'm saying library or
wait sorry
zzz this is a symbol right so if I look
at the head of this head is the function
for type of you get a symbol but symbol
is its own
symbol ah
okay so yeah so I want to so the script
doesn't actually show what I'm gonna put
on screen and so I need to start getting
all the visuals
down yeah I guess you just need to
explain what symbol or head is
yeah yes you say with a function
ahead compute the type just do
a this how you spell your name right o o
l
eh o l e h yeah
yeah
okay I mean you already explained it I
guess that should be fine if you like
illustrate it a bit yeah yeah the the
visuals are definitely the the cuz that
that's the thing about the thumbnail and
all of this stuff is like like the
thumbnail and the title basically Define
what to
expect and similarly like the visual
well just they just need to be a strong
aid cuz with just these words it's going
to be really hard to follow
along it honestly it feels less of wios
and more of that uh
numer filia guy or like blue something I
forgot his you're talking about number
file yeah I think there was another guy
like blue something like blue ocean
three blue and
brown
maybe that feels more like it because
we engage in videos this one is more
about on topic yeah yeah right because
vsas videos tend to meander around a
lot yeah yeah okay I yes whatever that
means Meander Meander oh it means like
it means like let's see Meander what
arounds it means follow course a winding
curve or bend it just means like it uh
it tends to zigzag it tends to uh it
doesn't have as clear of a
direction wait that's an exual
word Meander
yeah wait one second okay good to
know
e
e e
FS you you got something that can handle
eight amps of current
though I think I saw a kit I love the I
love buying those
kits all
right okay I'm
back um but yeah dude I I am I am so
into this studying YouTube videos
now cuz I
mean really it's like you're going head
to head against everyone else trying to
make the best videos it's like the most
challenging thing
ever uh okay let me look at it look at
me let me see what what the most oh wait
okay let's go back to three bone brown
but I do want to look at number
file but let's just see how he starts
out this
[Music]
video the great thing about about this
video video is that first
off first off the title is super
technical
well are you showing something or what
oh am I not showing anything oh yeah
yeah yeah you do you do I was just
somewhere else I mean the title is
technical but then there's an appeal to
did you find the older videos which
one you're talking about no I'm mean
like first ones oh the
oldest five six years yeah I don't know
nine years ago yeah oh that's actually
such a good point yes still pretty
technical this is his first video that's
crazy e to the pi ey = -1 is one of the
most famous equations in math but it's
also one of the most confusing those
watching this video likely fall into one
of three categories one you know what
each term means but the statement as a
whole seems nonsensical two you were
lucky enough to see what this means in
some long formulas explaining why it
works in a Calculus class but it still
feels like black magic or three it's not
entirely clear what the terms themselves
are those in this last category might be
in the best position to understand the
explanation I'm about to give since it
doesn't require any calculus or advanced
math but will instead require an
open-mindedness to reframing how we
think about numbers once we do this it
will become clear what the equation
means why it's true and most importantly
why it makes intuitive sense first let's
get one straight but we write as e to
the x is not repeated multiplication
that would only make sense when X is a
number that we can count 1 2 3 and so on
and even then you'd have to define the
number e first to understand what this
function actually does we first need to
learn how to think about numbers as
actions we are first taught to think
about numbers as counting things and
addition and multiplication are thought
of with respect to
Counting however this Mor of thinking
becomes tricky when we talk about
fractional amounts very tricky when we
talk about irrational amounts and
downright nonsensical when we introduce
things like theot of NE 1 instead we
should think of each number as
simultaneously being three things a
point on an infinitely extending line an
action which slides that line along
itself in which case we call it an adder
and an action which stretches the line
in which case we call it a multiplier
when you think about a number as an
Adder you could imagine adding it with
all numbers as points on the line all at
once but instead forget that you already
know anything about addition so that we
can reframe how you think about it think
of adders purely as sliding the line
with the following rule you slide until
the point corresponding to zero ends up
where the point corresponding with the
adder itself started when you
successively apply to adders the effect
will be the same as just applying some
other Adder this is how we Define their
sum likewise the video what's
up I'm asking you just silently watching
the video now I'm just silently watching
well I I'm I always forget why e to the
pi ey works so I was actually curious on
um I was actually curious on it but
like honestly I don't think I ever known
that really it's one of the weirdest
things ever
man anyways I I'll skip that but
um yeah so I was thinking of maybe I
could do
let's
see um I mean it's likely that I will
have to show code because okay in the
video that I have so far I just do I
just do little screen
recordings but I think it probably would
be better if you look at like uh
programming content most of it they they
do it in a cleaner way where they just
show a segment of code like totally
isolated so you don't show any of the vs
code or any of that nonsense but that
would be that would require me to like
animate
um and and I would use manm which is the
the thing that he used he open sourced
how he does
it like he has a like if you look at
manm this is how all these videos are
made
so I probably will need to do some sort
of manm script thing to get this
right close a bunch of these
tabs it's good that you can do
it oh yeah have yeah for sure I mean
most of the codes there would be
Mathematica it's
like it's not like it's complex or a lot
of
hey
yeah yeah yeah it's not going to be yeah
it's it'll be easy to do sa Michael here
earlier this month I traveled to Kuru in
French Guana with euron news to watch
the launch of a Vega rocket if it
happened while I was there waiting at
the observation point with only minutes
to go the launch was postponed because
of weather even though the rocket
scientists were using comic Sands the
rocket didn't take off until the day
after I had to be back in London but
made me think we can send satellites
into orbit and people to the moon and
predict solar eclipses thousands of
years into the future but yet we cannot
reliably predict which way the wind will
be blowing in the next hour or so how
can such Monumental Cosmic movements
light minutes or light years away from
us be understood whereas the weather
which happens in the very same layer of
the atmosphere we live in every day
remains such a mystery well it has to do
with the limits of what we know and what
we can know planetary positions and
terrestrial weather bro by the way he's
like our most he's like the college I
went to and dropped out of is uh he's
like our most famous
Alum he's like our most famous Alum he's
my favorite alumni uh of of Y
Chicago in the future are determined by
their initial condition yeah vauce yeah
if you go to if you go to Michael
Stevens you Chicago why did
you well Co happened and then just
didn't go back I got a job and then I
quit the
job I could go back probably but I don't
know I want to Chicago is kind of like a
cold sad place and California is like a
beautiful like a paradise
so can't you like switch the university
yeah yeah I can but um I don't know if I
want to study computer science like is
that even a good major anymore
oh no I will replace you I don't know I
me any education is good enough I guess
yeah I'm actually about to start taking
some classes next week um on
CNC so like we're going to be just see
like a okay yeah yeah like controlling
Mills and stuff like
that because I'm getting really into
fabrication
like like I want to be an engineer that
knows how to not just write software but
like do it all you know like yeah makes
sense electronics and uh manufacturing
all that
stuff that could be fun
yeah I the dream is to make YouTube
videos man I just got to make some good
ones I know the I kind of like the idea
of a drone of making a
drone yeah I mean no J room and whatever
you're doing now like a turret turret
yeah a shooting thing right that could
be fun the the and the annoying thing is
that so many
people wait DIY
turret okay first off like like so many
people have done
turret
like oh really so many people have done
the turret so that's why it needs to be
something new and it needs to be
challenging uh so that's why I want to
do painting a painting you know using a
paint an automated paintball thing to to
make art because it's new it's somewhat
captivating it's very challenging
um it sort of hit my benchmarks of like
you know it's going to stress test what
I really can do and anyways uh that's
how I settled on a turret a turret that
shoots paint
paintballs
um but so many people have just done the
turret I built this giant turret that
shoots actual DS no no no no no no
no I mean Mark robber
did who's
that oh here I remember we've gone over
this he's the
guy that um
this
guy okay yeah okay I remember yeah yeah
I just I keep forgetting his name I yeah
yeah dude he's so funny so I usually
call him Nar or something
um dude this is the funniest [__]
thing ever
bro hey hinge for the second time now
you ban and deleted
my bro he's just is outing himself it's
been 3 years since the
divorce I don't know I he's just a just
such a silly
tweet what is Hing Hing is a is a dating
app okay anyways
um
okay let's see what what is his most
famous video this guy like he's the
biggest science YouTuber by far
like no one else is as big wait
what I mean 56 57 million subscribers
that's just like
insane that's not unexpected I thought
it would be like 5 mil maybe no bro this
guy is
huge this guy's
insane these videos are actually really
good these squirrel maze ones I think he
did a version three
too I mean look at that that's what I'm
talking about red arrows BL bait I I
know I
know it it works like yeah it looks
stupid sometimes I know look at these
[__] faces it works yeah
yeah should I look at that dmy I know
dude should I do this freaking
just so
silly I mean you would probably have to
remake it maybe in better quality
because you have recording of the stream
but like something stupid just works and
maybe not that obviously that because
that's I guess over the top it's it's
all about it's all about the answer to
whether or not I should do it basically
lies
in what I think the audience is like
this is for like little kids basically
because it's like anybody that has you
know babies can understand a face that's
like I'm shocked a babies understand
that just by by being around people and
so basically th those kind of thumbnails
are like treating the viewer like a baby
or at least
it's it's something that is applicable
to all people like everyone can
understand a a shocked
face I don't know M I would definitely
click click on that you would click on
Terry Davis looking dude I know that
he's
[Laughter]
cooking yeah dude I'm gonna make this
okay I'm gonna make this the thumbnail
to this video to the video that I'm
recording I gotta download this thing
okay all right
we're just gonna see because I
haven't oh
god um because right now all my
thumbnails I I actually do click on I do
make them but I don't I don't spend all
I do is I typically just take a
screenshot from the uh from the stream
and then upload that so this is like
because the thing is I want to well I
mean it's not like they get any videos
at all but there's this guy dude okay
there's this guy SPO Foria he popped off
bro he started like later than me and he
already has 21k Subs but but [__] this
guy man he all right anyways I he's a
good programmer but [__] this guy
bro he no I know he's probably very nice
but I'm just jealous I mean the thing is
he does everything how you should do it
schedule he does it on schedule they
they're basically all 2
hours um and he's also like a goated
programmer like he is actually super
talented at
programming like you don't see him going
to chat GPT and asking him like I do
like he just writes [__] by hand he has
this playlist where he spent like a
month just building an operating system
in Rust
writing and operating system 66
videos what's up everybody welcome back
so was pass in the seek
position right because I just like but
anyways he is like
um what's up what's up what's up he he
actually gets views welcome back
everybody uh today we're but so uh
whatever mine don't mine don't get any
views I I
think let's see for a couple
reasons one is I I leave the stream a
lot so it's like too long and it's not
clear what part of the video you should
be watching because a lot of the time
I'm just like making food or like taking
a [__] or doing random
stuff um but I've sort
of changed my mind and I'm just like
these videos once I make actually good
videos about the turret and about the
programming language then like the
streams where I make them like I have
the full computer algebra streams where
I like build that programming language
but those aren't going to pop off until
the actual video pops
off that's crazy honestly
what like like the the moment you open
the the stream you know that something's
happening here
something is definitely
happening wait say I don't I don't
understand what you
mean you have key stream for wait I mean
the fact
yeah do you have key stream I don't even
know what that means I'm not sure if
that's a joke I mean the rust has a game
right I always like to go to these
people's profiles just to see I mean
it's so interesting like I would have
expected
I don't know why but I always expect
that the people that comment are
streamers themselves but they never
are basically nobody that watches the
stream is
um is a streamer themselves they're
pretty segregated into two
camps where did this go oh wait did I
just miss it there it is I think he left
but um
one okay whatever let's just
uh whatever man all right I want us go
to the number File channel and see what
um dude number file is actually so good
this guy Brady that runs it Brady Heron
he has a ton of channels and
um he's he he actually does make really
good videos it's so funny cuz they
always use that brown paper who does
doesn't like birthday cake and what I'm
going to what about
it speci they always use this whenever
they I don't know not in this video but
for some reason they always give him
this really weird brown paper to draw
on the number I want to talk about it
turns out to be right brown paper I just
think it's
funny straight away and then the maybe
that's just some sort of imeme I guess
at that point I know yeah
um okay yeah so what's happening in
chat Zach's Al
bro but yeah so I just need to like lock
in well I'm I'm pretty much done with
well I got to go make some food cuz I'm
really hungry but let's see this has
been going for 3 hours this is
um oh oh you know what he's referring to
Bro is um is the the title of this
stream is like rust on the Raspberry Pi
Pico which uh I have to wait for because
I uh that's going to come back actually
is so I have so the only way way to um
to print to a terminal using the Pico
and running r rust is you need this
thing called a debug probe and you can
actually use another Raspberry Pi Pico
as a debug probe but the problem is the
headers that are soldered onto my
Raspberry Pi Pico need this special type
of connector called a jst sh 1 mm
connector and I just bought
some so soon I will be able to get that
time of flight sensor running on my
um on on rust on my Raspberry Pi p
using that crate that you sent me but uh
we're not there yet but it is coming
because I want to test is rust faster
because micro Pico or micro python since
it's interpreted it should be slow
but but I don't know so anyways I'm
probably gonna end the stream here I
guess the difference would be negligible
now wait go ahead go
ahead I was about to say the difference
probably is NE
now yeah I I'm expecting it will be as
well how's your distance sensor is it
fixed uh yeah I got the
distance well I got that working that
there was no problem with
that I just remember that it was uh
glitchy like after a meter or so oh yeah
no I'm not going to get any better than
less than a meter I I'm but the thing is
all I need to
do is um where's my little thing is Det
determine whether or not there's a ball
in here so it's just going to go in
there and it's basically going to
determine the difference between
like like 20 mm so I don't really need
that far of a
detection um but it basically will tell
me when I'm out of bullets that's but I
got it working in Python but I didn't
get it working in Rust so that's sort of
where we're at dude I swear my
microphone has been like sometimes it
goes to
wait is it is it like automatic or what
is what
automatic the uh audio whatever it
called threshold like the uh like if you
talk in quiet the threshold like
lowers I don't think so and then uh I I
think it should be just constant there
is one thing going on that I have on the
filters and it's a noise suppression
thing
but I don't think that really affects it
I have a little game knob on this
microphone but for some reason it
doesn't seem like it does anything test
test it used to do something though but
like I don't
know something went something changed in
the past
like two
weeks um anyways if the I I really do
want to get the audio to be good but I
can't I can't justify spending a lot of
money on microphones at the moment
um I mean a $50 microphone which is how
much this costs is like kind of like I
was looking at wireless microphones
because it would be nice to have a
wireless microphone and the nice ones
are like 300 bucks 200 bucks the cheap
ones are like
20 but anyways
uh whatever are they good I do want the
audio to be good because if you have bad
audio like who's going to watch
you let me remind you of your webcam
previously my webcam is
garbage I mean do you remember you used
to have like the where you were sitting
next in your backyard without the like
with this like cat tow thing that would
remove your
background time I I still have that
installed
wait I have to go to
uh there we
go it's still not oh God yeah yeah okay
okay good
good oh wait it's not that bad you just
need to get it hard get your hair a bit
longer right yeah it's not you remember
it used to flicker around the oh yeah
yeah around the
edges yeah it's it's not so bad you can
kind of see it when it when it's at the
edge like you can see back
there I mean it doesn't flicker much
right now but it used
to but the reason why I don't like this
is because I actually want to show how
chat I am that uh that I work outside
all these losers they stay they stay
inside they only code inside but I stay
I stay
outside yeah you touch Ross even when
you code
exactly okay I'm starving I got to go
and make some food I'll probably start
up again but since it's so late there I
wouldn't wait up but um yeah i' probably
be sleeping at that point yeah W in this
this is fun I gotta go though